hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Jackson Zhang the CEO at Caleb and
brown Caleb and brown is a brokerage
firm that performs exchange-like
functions and helps investors build six
seven and eight figure portfolios in the
crypto space with a team of more than 50
people Caleb and brown helps their
clients navigate the complexities of
buying selling and swapping
cryptocurrencies with a 24 7 personal
broker service in this conversation
Jackson and I talk about getting into
crypto through game item marketplaces
starting a company in a blossoming
industry without a clear regulatory
Outlook how Caleb Brown offers
personalized services for their clients
the types of assets their clients are
interested in the reputable expertise of
the brokerage firm and much more just a
reminder nothing said on this podcast is
a solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Jackson and I hope
you enjoyed the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today I am joined by
Jackson Zhang the CEO at Caleb and brown
how you doing today Jackson I'm doing
well thanks for having me Dylan
absolutely I want to start off by first
saying you guys have a great commercial
on your Twitter page oh thank you very
much for that we um
we were recording that during the bull
run and it took us a lot longer to
produce so by the time we were releasing
it the excitement in the market had
really turned around so I would have
liked to get that out sooner well you
have a piece of Timeless content now but
I think uh will last Through the Ages
yeah it's got the production quality
that you'd expect of of maybe the
finance industry but a little bit more
of a fun tone that we tend to have in
the crypto space yeah that's super cool
um before we delve into what Caleb and
brown does and what you do and your
thoughts on the crypto space and
everything I noticed when digging into
your backgrounds that you studied uh
environments architecture and property
at the University of Melbourne prior to
being in the planning space I myself was
in the public sector working as an urban
planner for various different
governments here in the states so I'm
curious to hear a little bit about what
attracted you to the urban Sciences when
you you were a student I didn't expect
to get this okay so my career I guess in
in the architecture and property space
was a lot shorter than yours so I
actually was studying my double major
and I got to my last my last semester
and decided I was going to go full time
into crypto
so the timing there was um I think it
was mid 2017 so I had been I'd been
working in crypto since 2016. by the
time the the market was really starting
to go vertical I said look there's
there's a bigger opportunity here and
it's it's something that I'd tapped into
since 2013 actually so I'd been an
investor in Bitcoin for 10 years now but
professionally I was interested in it
since 2016 and I had to make the leap so
I can't say I had a very long career in
architecture
that's cool so you were interested in
getting into the crypto space in 2017
but it sounded like in 2016 the interest
was kind of starting to Bubble Up uh so
were you working on like side projects
while you're still in school were you
doing like Community moderation what did
that look like while you were still a
student as you were starting to get your
feet into the space so as a student I
was and this is a very common story for
the crypto space but I was playing fall
too many video games for my own good and
it got to a point where I would find
Niche very very Niche opportunities to
make money in the video game Space so it
started off just buying and selling game
items and it would be you would you
would trade with people on marketplaces
and forums this was before marketplaces
were being made for most games actually
so you're trading people on forums and
then inevitably you run into an issue of
like okay
trying to send someone money on the
internet in 2013 was very difficult and
even more difficult if you were a
teenager and you would you didn't have I
think you needed like parental sign off
to get like a PayPal account back in the
day and PayPal was not as reliable as it
is today back then so in our space we're
consistently ran into credit card
chargebacks because there was a lot of
credit card theft back then the way
Merchants stored credit card information
online was not as secure as strike these
days so there was a lot of credit card
theft and Merchants which myself being
emergent was really just a teenager
playing games were faced with credit
card chargebacks and you get a lot of
frustration when you steal money from
teenagers so then people were like us we
would look around and try and find
Solutions inevitably I came across
Bitcoin it made a lot of sense to me and
I was a I had that I guess creative part
of me that could see further into what
it could become rather than what it was
immediately on that day yeah cool that's
a very
um pragmatic way of coming into the
crypto space actually finding Bitcoin at
least to solve this need for remittances
or I guess uh transactions across
borders
so when you were going into the crypto
space in 2017 uh we had the Ico boom and
ethereum kind of showing this new way
that uh blockchain Network can be
utilized beyond what Bitcoin offered
which was payments so as you were coming
into the space in 2017 what were you
looking to do what did you have your eye
on were you trying to be Bitcoin only
were you starting to acknowledge that
there are different use cases for
blockchain networks what did what did
that look like what was kind of like
your Discovery period as you were
finding where you were going to get your
footing there were two key decisions or
okay insights that I held which really
gave me conviction in this space the
first was that people inevitably move
towards better money and I come from a
Chinese migrant family so I'm born in
Australia but my parents were born
overseas and we say here in Australia
the Australian dream is to own your own
home in Australia and then we say in
China the Chinese stream is the only
your own home in Australia
so there are visions that people have in
countries where they recognize that
they're not satisfied with the economy
that they live in and the goal is to
move somewhere more reliable
and there are so many different
countries and economies in the world
that it does not make sense for there to
not be just a a second option for people
that doesn't require the level of fa it
takes to actually move uh physically
right and be another citizen of another
country so that was my first belief and
in 20 I think it was November 2015 Trump
won the election and I you know didn't
have any knowledge of the I guess the
the left and right views at the time but
what I did know was that it was a
significant political upset so everyone
was very very surprised that he won
right and there were just signs of a lot
of polarization to come so that to me
meant okay well this initial belief I
had where I think people from a lot of
countries will inevitably seek out
alternative economies to be a part of
the same is going to happen for the
United States because eventually you'll
come to a point where the government is
meant to use the economy or use use
currency debasement to benefit the
economy but when you have polarization
you get a sector of that population
think well not only are they debasing my
assets not only are they debasing my
currency they're also not spending it in
the way that I believe represents me so
regardless of what your views are from a
game theory perspective there's 50 that
are more and more inclined to step out
of the system so that was the first view
which was November 2015 right so that
that was the beginning of 2016 and then
that made me come back into the space
coming back into the space I read about
ethereum and that really just turned all
the lights on and said wow there is way
more to this than I had originally
thought because then it made from it
turned from just money and currency to
now it's more programmable money but now
it's basically you're building a whole
new Financial Foundation where you can
place applications on top of I hadn't
gone into the Bitcoin crypto space until
2017 but I remember the unrest and the
tumultuousness that the US was feeling
when Trump got elected and that was kind
of a paradigm shift in the world and
also I think a sign of things to come I
was just at East Denver and one of the
conversations I had with someone who's a
guest on the podcast was that in the
future we're not going to be able to
tell what information online was created
by a bot or someone who's just making up
lies so something like decentralized
identity is going to become very
important as we start consuming content
and verifying that the content creator
is indeed a real person so lots of
issues like this are starting to arise
and just like you'd seen with ethereum
opening up this new paradigm in 2016
these blockchain and decentralized
networks are going to be used to solve
even more issues in the future moving
forward that we're just beginning to
maybe comprehend or understand or even
just think of now so that's a really
interesting kind of background and
before we go into Caleb and brown you're
also the director of blockchain
Australia so there's more I love when I
come across folks who are working on
like associations that are about the
field that they're in and not just the
business that they do so what is
blockchain Australia and what's your
primary goal with this group and maybe
just share like a a background too
because it's a pretty long running
entity yeah so blockchain Australia is a
industry Association that works with
both the public and the industry to
communicate its values and objectives to
the regulators and the government so we
end up being a communication conduit
that makes sure that regulation is
shaped appropriately in this space and
that the consumers are not just
protected but also represented and and
protected in the ways that they want to
be protected and not predicted in ways
where it's just like cool to spend
everything close it all down
nobody wants this anyway so so that's
that's our primary objective we want to
be the champions of consumer protection
but also consumer Choice and then as a
result of having that responsibility we
also are very well placed to assist
companies and startups and new
entrepreneurs in how they should run
about their go about their business and
and put in place best practices or
connect them with the right people that
can help them solve those whether it's
technical challenges compliance
challenges even strategic challenges
the most excited accomplishment that I
think blockchain Australia has done was
actually
in 2017 we worked with oztrack which is
the equivalent of fincen
um it's the AML regulator in putting
together a digital currency guideline or
puffball first for how to design a
process of regulation for the AML
regulator that would actually work in
the crypto space and then a guideline
for how the operators in the crypto
space would adopt those policies because
prior to that the regulator would look
at Bitcoin companies and just think oh
you guys are just like unregistered
money remitters so they it's very
natural for a regulator when observing a
new technology to just think from the
perspective of the boxes they already
have right that's and it's perfectly
understandable so we had to basically
communicate hey here are the reasons why
we are not able to comply with the
current set of rules it just doesn't fit
up technology stack but all of your
objectives we can still help you
accomplish those and in fact we have
fantastic technology to help you
accomplish those things we just need to
do the work in building that policy and
then getting everyone to adopt it so one
day I'm sure I hope you know whether
it's myself or my constituents we'll do
the same for the security space but it
looks like we'll see we'll see that
unfold over the course of the next year
or two what is the general Vibe or
consensus of crypto and blockchain
networks in Australia right now
for context if it was any year before a
year ago in the states I would have said
that it's mostly off of legislators
Radars but you know you have some local
constituents talking with their senators
and House Representatives and now I
would say it's full-blown adversarial
here in the states so are you seeing
similar reactions and sort of actions
towards this industry uh in Australia so
very fortunately for Australia I don't
think it's adversarial uh at all I think
it's a it's a healthy Cadence so they're
going about it I think I would have
liked to have seen it be complete last
year but they're they're going about a
process now where where treasury is
coming out with a consultation paper
they are asking the industry how they
would like the space be mapped out and
the first step that they've taken upon
is to create a token mapping exercise so
they're now abstracting the the
designation of whether or not something
is a financial product from the digital
asset that we have so instead of instead
of saying it is always the erc20 token
or is it always the ERC 721 token
they're saying it is the system and it
is the properties of
um your interactions of that system a
bit abstract but they're going about the
right approach which is to really fully
understand the space first
second thing they're doing at some point
this year will be to launch a
consultation paper on custody so the
first is the understanding the
properties of the products and the
second is they're going to understand
the requirements to save custody for
consumers and then I assume after those
two consultation papers are done they
would roll out the proposed regulations
so it's a very sensible pragmatic
process it's not adversarial it's
definitely not regulation via
enforcement
kind of transitioning into Caleb and
brown I do want like the elevator pitch
of what it is you guys are and what you
do but since we're on this line right
now it seems like there are exchange and
custodial services that your entity
offers so before you had these growing
guidelines and seemingly receptive
Regulators were there any concerns or
considerations that you guys had around
being a brokerage offering exchange
services what was that kind of like
while you were still in no man's land
before you knew that Australian
regulators and legislators were going to
be open-minded and seek to cater to this
industry that's a wonderful question and
our perspective has changed as we have
become a much larger company than we had
at the beginning so I will I will admit
as an entrepreneur you do not worry
usually you just you don't worry about
lack of clarity in regulation because
you're a team of like two usually you're
like 20 years old
and so you're effectively just
identifying a gap in the marketplace
you're identifying a problem that
consumers have and you help them solve
it and what actually makes you start
thinking about compliance is your
success and you start to realize oh wow
I have a lot of clients that I'm looking
after now I have a responsibility to
them the company's now bigger I've also
got a responsibility to my team that
this is a stable Enterprise
so that's that's kind of how it
eventuated like once we had over 100
clients who are like okay let's take a
look at this a little bit more seriously
this is not something I'm recommending
this is just this isn't having just an
open conversation that ultimately is how
it eventuates when you're in a space
that is completely brand new now
fortunately that's not the case anymore
and there are fairly clear rules around
different parts of the industry some
areas are still a bit gray but it's not
one where when we first started there
were literally no regulations it wasn't
even recognized as an industry like we
were still jumping around between the
word cryptocurrency or maybe we're
seeing blockchain now we're saying
digital assets I guess we haven't we
haven't really solved that problem but
it was um people barely understood what
you meant when you said cryptocurrency
back then our approach back then was
very simple it was look we regardless of
whether or not compliance has these
guidelines for us we still want to be
sitting on as minimal risk as possible
and having been in crypto since 2013
we'd seen Mount gox and then throughout
the course of my career there's been
just dozens of other exchange blow-ups
and even even if the exchange didn't
blow up I think like once a year you
would see the top exchange the leading
exchange change place like they would
fall out of that number one ranked
position so we knew that like
counterparties were just not that
reliable so our concern and our Focus
was always not like what does the
regulator think of me our concern was
always never lose the customer's money
so a lot of our Focus went towards
building our custody and settlement
processes making sure we had as minimal
counterparty risk as possible at all
times and then as the industry matured
there were really really great
technologies that were built out so now
we're partnered with fire blocks they're
one of the leading technology stacks for
crypto custody and that really allows us
to well that allows me to go to sleep at
night I'm smiling nice so can you give a
like an elevator pitch for what Caleb
and brown is yeah um so if I had to say
it in one sentence we help investors
build six seven eight figure portfolios
in crypto and from a pragmatic
perspective we are a brokerage and we
perform exchange functions so everyone
understands what a cryptocurrency
exchange is some are more simplified
user interfaces some are slightly more
complex order book interfaces our
platform is on the simpler end
however the key differentiation between
us and any other exchange is that every
single client of ours is assigned to a
personal broker who takes care of their
portfolio so we end up with the high
value end of the customer scale because
they want to make sure that someone is
looking after what's happening to their
assets what's happening to their
portfolio
regularly providing research and then
outside of that we do the custody for
them partnered with fireblocks and for
our execution where value shines through
is when larger clients have positions
that are larger than what the liquid
order book can easily handle so we can
help aggregate liquidity across
different exchanges and execute at the
best price for them cool and
um when was Caleb and brown founded and
how many clients do you have and how
many countries do you operate in right
now we were founded in 2016 by our
co-founders and I actually joined in
2017. I think for this business model we
are definitely the oldest in Australia
but even among exchanges I think from
what we have left we're probably among
the five five oldest exchanges in
Australia we have over 20 000 clients
now coming from over a hundred countries
and I won't be able to list exactly how
many countries
I guess you guys are in exchange are you
a centralized exchanger do you also
Implement like Dax protocols on the back
end as well yeah so we are not the order
book we aggregate order books which
means we will basically go to wherever
there is the most liquidity for the
asset that our client wants to acquire
or sell which means yes we are we
aggregate both centralized and
decentralized do you have a preference
or I guess after the dumpster fire of
2022 and seemingly the banking collapse
in the States in in Switzerland are you
seeing um either an internal preference
for dex's non-custodial exchanges or are
your clients asking to utilize more of
these protocols on the back end are you
seeing any of that on outside not so
much because the core concern is custody
rather than the exchange so the problem
with FTX was not like whether they were
a centralized order book or a
decentralized lending pool it was that
the custody wasn't real he basically had
stolen everyone's crypto and it wasn't
actually there so our clients they're
not they're not really concerned where
the trade is executed they're concerned
where the custody is stored so being on
fire blocks is a fantastic win for them
and then secondary to that all of that
we always recommend to our clients if
you've got the technical capabilities to
be confident in storing your own coins
you should definitely hold your own
coins so we also actually help our
clients with
understanding Cold Storage best
practices
simply it's for the most part it's here
hey you should buy a ledger you should
set up in this way you should make sure
you're storing your seed phrase safely
and then we teach them how to use their
wallet so we'll send them a little bit
of crypto for free we say hey send it
back to us this is how you use it this
is how block Explorer works so there's a
lot of that educational onboarding as
well so so I don't find that our clients
think too much about whether the
executions on decentralized or
centralized on our side we are seeing
that for the most part centralized order
books remain more liquid so price
efficiency is still better there however
because we've got the benefit of
observing this over seven years it is
quite clear that decentralized order
books are catching up especially for
newer tokens that's really cool can you
shed light on why fireblocks is such an
integral part of your custodial solution
and before fire blocks the thing what
were you guys using or what were you
doing on behalf of your clients for
custody yeah custody is is a very very
tricky thing and it's also not a
stationary thing so our team's
philosophy is to continuously update and
use the best practices so what that
meant was for for the assets where
multi-cig wallets were available we'd
use multi-sig for assets where they're
newer and the wallet infrastructure is
not as mature that's not available so we
we simply say okay these are the assets
we need to hold what are the best
mechanisms to hold each now the reason
fireblocks is fantastic is because
they've built a platform and they've
they're calling it's not quite multi-sig
it's NPC which is multi-party computing
but it performs a very similar function
which is it requires multiple levels of
authentication for a transaction to be
signed so they'll sign it on their side
we sign up on our side and then on top
of that we can apply
operating procedures and authorization
levels for different types of
transactions so that's really helpful
for us and it's also a platform where
you can basically list any erc20 token
and any evm compatible chain as well so
at a technical level they've just done a
wonderful job there are competitors
which means the space you know is quite
healthy and has has healthy competition
and they're constantly improving so that
was a massive challenge if you've been
to conferences back in 2017 it was
almost like every second topic was about
who's building the custody software so
I'm glad that that challenge has been
filled in by a number of players and
what about for non-evm tokens because I
think you guys offer support for more
than 100 different cryptocurrencies and
token projects right so do you just have
other multi-sig or your own MPC sort of
processes or if like a client is really
hopeful for for getting into a project
that's non-erc do you guys kind of like
walk through a specific custodial
solution with them for that specific
type of blockchain so for the most part
everything is on fire blocks they've
just done a very very good job of
listing most of the chains now what I
meant was that there is a benefit of of
them being able to very rapidly adopt
new evm trains so yeah maybe maybe a
couple years ago if you you're on a
custodian you would need to wait like
six months for them to add a new chain
to their platform these days it can
happen in a week or sometimes they do it
on launch day so it's a lot more
impressive but I'd say with custody like
the long tail is has pretty much been
eradicated there's a handful of assets
that we need to support on our own side
but you know it's it's like low single
digit percent yeah I only ask because uh
my bread and butter is covering the Neo
blockchain and what's happening in that
ecosystem and I'm very well aware that
it's not evm and so when that pops up in
any conversation with onboarding a new
project or somebody looking to get
invested or whatever it is that's an
issue that I find the ecosystem running
into so it's fairly interesting to hear
you know what folks are thinking if
that's even a problem and it doesn't it
sounds like that's a rare uh situation
for you guys
it is it is a rare situation
um but I am aware of your the problem
you're flagging with Neo it actually
highlights into like one of the very
core component of the crypto thesis the
reason the crypto space grows so fast is
that everything is interoperable we have
like abstracted away a lot of the clunky
things in the physical world that really
produce friction with user experience
and we've made everything extremely
interoperable
when the industry moves in a single
Direction sometimes old technology gets
left behind and that's what we're seeing
with blockchains that it's not
necessarily all evm incompatible
blockchains but some of them simply do
not get adopted by the infrastructure of
the Next Generation I think evm
compatibility is extraordinarily
important because it actually it moves
in the direction that the crypto spaces
is going which is instead of having
fragmented silos of financial ecosystems
which are physically located right
they're geographically separated we have
an interconnected Financial mesh and
everything flows seamlessly through
across all evm compatible chains that's
where the future I believe is going to
head
it's also a future that makes sense
because even in the physical world we
live in a very hyper interconnected
globalized economy and we've seen this
over the last week with the concerns
around Credit Suisse coming down so it
only makes sense for the financial
industry to move directionally towards
where crypto already is yeah you're not
wrong and I mean even like uh the more
prominent l2s or not even l2's
alternative l1s today like Cosmos
and near in polka dot all these
ecosystems are already dealing with
implementing some sort of evm
compatibility or integrating evm Bridges
to those networks and so it still
remains that for programmability the evm
is King I'm interested to hear who your
clients are you say that they're on the
higher end of net worth so are these
individuals who made their money in
crypto and are now seeking out
experienced advisors such as yourself or
are you finding this is uh old money or
money that is coming from the
traditional Finance space and maybe
these individuals are ready to take the
leap and put a large portion of their
net worth into crypto and digital assets
and they just don't know what the best
way to go about that is who are like the
types of clients you guys are finding
come knocking on your door there's
definitely a blend but the biggest
category are people who have made their
money not in crypto and that's why it
makes sense for them to come to us
they've made their money not in crypto
so they're experienced in investing but
they're not experienced in crypto which
gives them the wisdom to know okay I
should seek out a professional we do
have clients that have made their money
in crypto and for them we do the the
stuff they ask for is a little bit
different so we're we're kind of for
them we're kind of like very Niche
problem solvers they'll say hey I have
this particular need
maybe my project has this kind of like
Plumbing required for our transactional
activity and then we just come in and
help them solve that because we're a
service based business we're able to be
a lot more flexible in building out
processes for them uh rather than be
having a single platform for millions of
users and being like yeah these are the
buttons yeah I guess also another
question I have because when I started
learning about finances personal
finances Investments those are very DIY
do-it-yourself kind of guy like uh I got
in learning about IRAs and index funds
and then only stumbled on bitcoin
because everyone was saying it was a
scam so I had to figure out why and that
was my Genesis into this crazy world
that we operate day to day in I've
always understood that there's a value
that Brokers and brokerage firms can
bring to the investor if the investment
vehicle if the gains are worth the fees
so other than we can make you more gains
as that's why you pay us the fees why
might someone want to invest through
Caleb and brown using a professional
brokerage service rather than kind of
trying to figure it out on their own
yeah I I simply have to say the biggest
reason is that there are a lot more
people who are time poor than a lot of
crypto the typical crypto user tends to
think you know I'm definitely someone
who couldn't imagine not looking at
crypto for any less than 16 hours a day
um but like 80 of our customers are over
the age of 40. and if you take the
typical crypto demographic or the crypto
exchange platform demographic 80 of
their customers are under the age of 40.
so there's a lot of like 20s 30s in
crypto and generally speaking you have a
lot more time in your 20s to be
researching new technologies for people
a little bit more far along in their
careers they're experts in some other
field and their time is best spent
earning money in their field rather than
researching crypto so for a lot of it
it's just like at the clients of time
poor and if you're an expert in some
other area and you're making money in
that area it's usually not a wise idea
to try and do everything right like we
don't all become Michelin star chefs
even though we cook at home a lot so so
that's that's one of the reasons um and
the second is that because they're time
poor we can filter the information and
my goodness there is a lot of
information in the crypto space we've
filter the important things and deliver
that to them and then as their portfolio
moves if any particular events relevant
to an asset in their portfolio because
we give them a call and we say hey this
event just occurred just want to fill
you in here's the good thing serious
about things cool what's like the the
fee or Revenue model for Caleb and brown
are you guys working off commission or
are you working off of like a set fee we
charge a transaction fee so there's no
withdrawal fees no deposit fees no
custody fees we pay all that on our end
but there is a fee on every trade so we
aggregate liquidity for the client and
if they say Okay I want to buy this I
want to sell this and we go and get the
best price we can acquire for them and
we charge a percentage-based fee on top
and that'll vary depending on the
customer's transaction size cool
what are the assets that your clients
are interested in because maybe in 2018
and 19 you would have been running into
people who only wanted to custody
Bitcoin and ethereum in 2020 you might
have started getting into ERC 721
management because nfts really started
taking off and then in 2021 we had this
rise of alternative L1 so now we start
having the cosmos ecosystem and we
started having other uh prominent EVMS
like Avalanche and other uh non-evms
like near so how have over the years
you've seen the demand for or the
appetite for your clients as it pertains
to not just Bitcoin and ethereum but
like the growing ecosystem of digital
assets that exist we definitely see the
preference towards different assets or
types of assets change as the industry
change just like everyone else it is
very clear to us now though that there
are there are two core assets and then
there's everything else which is Bitcoin
and ethereum when we first started out
it was literally only Bitcoin and
ethereum they were the first two assets
we decided to support
and then we would get the you know long
tail of everyone getting excited about
New Opportunities effectively crypto is
Venture Capital with liquidity on day
one
and the funny thing about venture
capital is that one of those bets makes
outsized returns so as the years change
we'll have in our total custody like
sometimes some random asset that makes
up a disproportionately large percentage
of the custody
because it has outsides returns and a
very good example of that was chain link
lost cycle chain link I can't remember
what the returns are anyway but it was
it was probably over 100x it just made
obnoxious returns and ended up being
like a really big chunk of our custody
so that that really never changes but
the trends you'll see is that even if
you have a asset be a large part of the
AUM it doesn't necessarily give you
insights towards forward-looking Trends
because what you'll notice is that there
are a small number of clients holding
that asset and it's not a trend towards
those assets it's actually the past
manifesting in the size of your wallet
the trend to us is clear that everyone
observes Bitcoin and ethereum as the
foundation to their portfolio and that
opportunities are being analyzed and I
guess consistently reassessed in the old
space and I'd like to hear a little bit
more about your research team first of
all you guys have a really large team
and it's seemingly growing so Props on
taking Caleb and Brown from two
employees to I guess when you joined you
were probably part of like the first
dozen and now there's two or three dozen
plus and not just researchers but also
software developers and advisors and you
guys just have a really wide and robust
team so maybe you can talk a little bit
about the Caleb and brown team just
generally and then also kind of your
researchers because I have to imagine if
you're dealing with high net worth time
poor individuals they want facts just
given to them and your researchers have
have had to scour through
thousands of white papers dozens
hundreds of projects and everything
what's the Caleb and brown team and
what's kind of like the value or the
weight that you guys put on your
research team as well so there's three
big departments in our team
the first and the really obvious one is
our brokerage team they're our
client-facing team and they're
incredibly important because that's our
interface with our clients and they're
the people that end up building the
relationship with the clients
understanding their needs building trust
one very key differentiation between our
business and any other business in the
space is that we are someone who takes
you through this process and stays with
you on that process throughout the years
my clients will never leave me because
they've been with me for seven years and
it's just like I don't think they're
ever going to find anyone else
that's that's effectively like the
feeling that that we have without with
our clients because you you build a
really really long-term relationship
and maybe I say something that upsets
one of them but the process of changing
is is quite painful as well like if you
think about trying to switch accountants
there's a lot of friction to switching a
relationship based service so I'm very
proud of my brokerage team we've built
up a very loyal client base that's stuck
with us through the years and we also
never really figured out how to do
advertising as well so all of our
clients have come in organically
I know we talked about the advertising
campaign at the start of this podcast
but that was not a successful campaign
for us but I am proud of how it looks it
does look awesome so then and then the
next two big departments are our
engineering team so they build our
platform they make sure that we have
reliability in our infrastructure so
that our liquidity aggregation is
reliable so that our platform stays
online so that it's it's designed well
and lastly we have our operations team
and between the the engineering and
operations team the most important thing
they do is take care of the custody
stack so the execution and custody stack
um now on the on our research team it's
headed up by our portfolio manager his
name is Tommy he comes from a background
of traditional funds Management in
Australia um there's a company called
spaceship it was the fastest growing
superannuation company and Tommy was a
portfolio manager there so we we brought
on people with traditional research
experience looking after billions of
dollars of retirement funds for
Australians we've brought on those
people so that they can apply rigid
processes to the way we go about
analyzing the space because I I'm sure
we all know it's like it's just a
constant bombardment of new information
and it's scattered everywhere it's very
distributed uh so putting some reliable
and time-tested strategies to that is
really helpful for us and the second
person that I'm really proud to have on
our team his name is Daniel Caruso and
he was ahead of structured equities in
his career structured derivative sorry
um and he uh he was uh working in stock
gen Deutsche Bank and institutions where
most of the people would still be
looking at us and thinking yeah this is
not a real industry but he's he's
decided to come on and bring on those
processes and allow us to really
accelerate the way we improve our
research our execution and our
strategies in the crypto sector yeah I'm
in the space like you 16 hours a day
looking at the screen full-time covering
blockchain and crypto and I still have
no idea about so many different corners
of the space it's incredible to me how
people are able to keep up and it almost
like sounds like you have to have a
dedicated team working on the things
that you have your guys working on
getting towards the end and wrapping up
I wanted to end with a higher level sort
of conversation
there's been kind of a yo-yo in the past
two years where last year we saw the
spectacular collapse of decentralized
systems like Terra Luna as well as FTX
which was the the first or the second
largest Exchange in the world so you had
this complete and utter meltdown of
trust in basically blockchain and
cryptocurrency just in general and then
you flip-flop that with this year and
we're starting to see Regional and
Community Banks in America fail we're
starting to see the overreach of the SEC
going into uh long-standing good
entities like coinbase we're starting to
see The Regulators shut down Banks one
of which had the lead author of The
post-financial Crisis bill here in the
United States the Dodd-Frank Act one of
them on the board so now and Credit
Suisse of course so a couple last year's
failure of basically cryptocurrency
markets both centralized and
decentralized with this year the banks
failing people what has that looked like
with your clientele what was it like
last year what was it like this year and
what have kind of the concerns been
amongst your clients over the the past
year and a half as they're now
conflicted where to participate in which
markets so you touched on a couple
things there there's an interesting
connection I'd actually like to make
between a few of the things you piloted
so Luna collapsed in the I guess
decentralized crypto space FTX collapsed
in the centralized crypto space now
we're having commercial bank failures in
the traditional World both in crypto and
outside of crypto and then I guess the
next thing people are looking ahead for
is a are there concerns of
hyperinflation I'll try and briefly talk
about the types of inclusions that have
occurred and why are they why they are
interconnected so when Luna collapsed it
is in a very different way from the way
FTX collapsed Luna collapsed because
they were trying to create a fiat
currency the Luna's mechanism was one
where they had a currency that could be
infinitely printed as long as the price
kept coming down they would keep
printing it
which actually means it's the same model
that the Federal Reserve operates on the
one failure of Terra Luna might not be
the one failure they would be others but
but a very a big a foolish mistake they
made was that they had anywhere remotely
close to the amount of scale they needed
to operate a Fiat model so I want to
keep that in in the listeners mind
because it'll come into play later which
is if you do not have a robust user base
on your fiat currency and they lose
faith in it it will hyperinflate the
second was FTX FTX blew up because they
had taken customer deposits which the
customers thought were there so
effectively it was fractional Reserve
banking now it was fraud because they
were not supposed to do that whereas in
Banks the banks have a license to do
that so the way FTX had operated was
that the hit they had taken everyone's
deposits they had shown everyone their
balance so everyone thought those assets
were still there but on the back end
he's taken on Leverage through his uh
through his hedge fund and sold the
assets that the clients thought they had
into highly risky altcoins that
inevitably collapsed imploded it lost
all the money and he couldn't pay back
the clients so when he when he failed
but I think it was like a week before he
failed people had looked at his balance
sheet his balance sheet had leaked and
it was being very very close to being
negative equity on a mark to Market
basis and a mark to Market basis just
means the liquid price at on that
current day now the problem with his
balance sheet was that his old coins
like even if you Market to Market if you
hold 90 of something it's it's probably
worth zero if you try to sell it so so
that was never really there now that FTX
model is actually the same way
commercial banks operate so it used to
be the connection I'm making here
there's two types of failures and that
neither of them are unique to the crypto
space it is just really risky Behavior
that is horrible for consumers now being
replicated in the crypto space so what
the banks are doing is they take the
customer deposits and it's really
annoying that the public doesn't have a
default understanding of this that when
you're giving your money to a bank
you're not holding that dollar at the
bank you are lending the bank money and
the bank effectively operates as a hedge
fund built solely to make profit for
themselves the only difference is that
they operate within tight constraints
where the regulations say okay these are
the levels of risk you you're allowed to
take now that inevitably runs into
issues because a lot of us in the space
are aware that okay cool the banks
operate on fractional Reserve we always
think that the fractional Reserve is 10x
or 10 because the reserve ratio
requirement at the FED for commercial
banks used to be 10 which means every
dollar you put in a bank ends up being
ten dollars once it's moved through the
economy a whole bunch of times on March
2020 during the pandemic the FED dropped
that Reserve requirement down to zero
percent now zero percent is a very
interesting number because it's not 10
different from 10
it's infinitely different from 10
because the leverage that a bank could
take on had now gone from 10x to now
ingenuity
so now the only restriction remaining
for the banks to not blow themselves up
was their own Capital was it with their
own Equity so you can hear in in the
traditional media you hear them talk
about tier one Equity a lot or T1
capital a lot that's basically saying
cool what is the value of my what's the
value of my Equity that's the only thing
I have to backstop this outside of that
I'm allowed to take on as much leverage
as I want
and where the banks came into issues is
when they started getting down to about
like five percent tier one capital and
there's reports showing that there's
another it went from
five banks being in that position to
over 333 banks in that position over the
course of a month and we're gonna we're
gonna see more of that so that's the two
parallels I wanted to make banks operate
off the same way that FTX blew up
however they do operate with much less
risky assets and then Fiat currencies
operate off the same model as Luna we do
have clients concerned about that the
clients that are concerned about that
are buying Bitcoin they're not buying
old coins it is it is a tricky one
because nobody wants the US dollar to
hyper it's like if the US dollar hyper
inflates it's not really good for
anybody it's it's just like less
disastrous for people who are holding
Bitcoin but it's horrible for the entire
world so so we're not we're not seeing
like a panic of any sort but we are
seeing very very clear awareness amongst
everyone yeah that's really fascinating
actually to tie the lunar collapse with
the way that Fiat currencies work and
and also the FTX collapse with the way
that Banks work though banks have a
little bit of a backstop from their
government Partners I guess would be the
best way to put it and I've always said
that in a world of hyper bitcoinization
it's going to be really scary because I
don't think it's just going to be
Bitcoin that people are going to be
wanting to use for currency it's going
to be beans and guns as well and I don't
think anybody really wants to live in
that type of society it will not be as
comfortable as how we live today so
really interesting to hear what your
clients are talking about and also the
way that you're breaking it down to them
we are out of time so if anybody wants
to keep up with you or to keep up with
Caleb and brown what are the best ways
that they can do that so our website is
calvinbrown.com
c-a-l-e-b-a-n-d brown.com and my Twitter
is at I am underscore Jackson Zang I
recently followed your Twitter account
as I Was preparing for this interview
awesome content really just short
insightful to the point no BS sort of
tweets so I can acknowledge that it's
it's a good follow for anybody who's
interested Jackson thank you so much for
coming on to the smart economy podcast
it was fascinating to hear what the
perception and perspectives are from a
broker who's offering Services
especially to higher net worth older
individuals who aren't uh your crypto
natives so it was really great to hear
more about what you're working on I
implore anyone who's interested in this
conversation to take a peek at your
Twitter and your website and uh I just
want to thank you again so much for
sharing the past hour with us thanks for
having me Dylan cheers
well what you think of that conversation
I thought it was really fascinating to
hear Jackson's perspective about the
protocol and centralized crypto
collapses in 2022 with the banking
crises playing out in 2023 that those
collapses in crypto weren't unique to
the space but to entities that engage in
Risky behavior and don't keep the end
consumer in mind I also really
appreciated Jackson's perspective on
using a brokerage service as I've always
been a DIY type of investor but there
are certain times when it's more
advantageous to allow professionals to
help manage digital assets after all
many of us cook food at home quite often
but not all of us are Michelin star
chefs on that note I want to thank you
so much for taking the time to listen to
the smart economy podcast if you liked
what you heard and want to support the
show please keep Neo news today in mind
when voting for your Neo Council
representative as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
foreign